
ingler
******

ingler is a system monitoring tool. It runs commands periodically, and syslog's
these stdout.

How does it work?
=================

ingler repeats the following sequence periodically.

1.  scans the install directory to find executables which have the prefix of
    "ingler." ("ingler" with one dot, such as "ingler.cputemp").
2.  executes all of them.
3.  sends STDOUT of these to syslog.

For example
-----------

Assume that you have the following modules::

* /usr/local/bin/ingler.cpufreq
* /usr/local/bin/ingler.diskusage

ingler executes these two in each period. If ingler.diskusage outputs to
STDOUT::

    usage=90%

it will be syslog'ed, for example::

    Jul 23 02:09:29 <daemon.info> hostname ingler[13138]: diskusage: usage=90%

ingler does not
---------------

ingler does not notify any incidents. All ingler does is only monitoring.
Notification is the roll of any other systems.

Standard modules
----------------

ingler has modules of::

* ingler.cputemp: the module to monitor CPU temperature

It are installed by default with ingler.

Command line options
====================

ingler accepts the following command line options.

* --period: length of each period in seconds. Default is 6[sec].

Requirements
============

ingler works on

* FreeBSD 9.1/amd64
* Perl 5.14.4

How to compile/install
======================

Requirements
------------

You need to compile/install ingler

* `CMake`_ 2.8.11.2

.. _CMake: http://www.cmake.org/

Edit configure.conf
-------------------

The first step to build ingler is making configure.conf::

    $ cp configure.conf.sample configure.conf
    $ vi configure.conf

Build
-----

The building instruction is::

    $ ./configure && make && sudo make install

How to start/stop
=================

How to start
------------

::

    # echo 'ingler_enable="YES"' >> /etc/rc.conf
    # echo 'ingler_flags="--period 60"' >> /etc/rc.conf
    # service ingler start

How to stop
-----------

::

    # service ingler stop

About the name
==============

"ingler" is a `nonsense word`_ generated by `nonsense word generator`_.

.. _nonsense word: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nonsense_word
.. _nonsense word generator: http://www.soybomb.com/tricks/words/

.. vim: tabstop=4 shiftwidth=4 expandtab softtabstop=4 filetype=rst
